by [Poe The Salmon Roe](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1obYByXAfcPz677CLcBKc54lPXRMj9iLjMNWiqcewsC8/edit)


Transcript for The Queer Normality of Bobs Burgers. James’ “sources” will be popped in the comments relative to where they pop up at the bottom of the video.


INTRO


Bobs burgers, created by Loren Bouchard, made its debut on television on January 9th 2011. While the American animated sitcom may be popular, there’s something about Bob’s Burgers that even at a cursory glance feels slightly different than its animated brethren. Though it may seem standard enough at first, the Belchers, Bob, Linda and their three children, are the proud but often beleaguered proprietors of the shows namesake hamburger restaurant, which they live above in a cramped apartment.


As far as burger joints go, they have the dubious honour of serving burgers and fries next to a crematorium, talk about existentialism, owned by Mort the mortician, who is a regular visitor to the restaurant along with Teddy, a handyman whose cluelessness can pass for zen detachment sometimes. They also stand in as Bob’s best friends.Sort of.


[CLIP: 
BOB: Teddy’s not my best friend, Lin, he’s my best customer. There’s a big difference.]


This is opposed to the genre standard of the husband going off to drink at a bar with his friends after work.The Belchers have neither the time nor the money for nightly bar visits. Though Linda does love her wine ;).


[CLIP:
LOUISE: Yeah, mom’s the one with a drinking problem!
LINDA: The problem is I don’t have a friggin drink in my hand! Haha!]


Directly across from Bob’s Burgers is Jimmy Pesto’s, run by Bob’s business rival…Jimmy Pesto. He’s a businessman and marketeer before a chef, and even though Bob’s daily special eclipses whatever’s on Pesto’s menu from a culinary standpoint, Jimmy Pesto is never short for customers, while Bob is constantly scraping the bottom of his register for cash. Jimmy Pesto is rightfully never depicted in a flattering light, especially since what happened with the former voice actor with an real life plot twist that’s almost too bizarre for fiction. 


But more about the Belchers.Their children are Tina, Gene and Louise. Each one onto themselves operating as a walking, talking meme-machine. They balance their lives as students at Wagstaff School with their unpaid labour in the family restaurant. Tina, at the age of thirteen, rides the turbulent waves of puberty with the grace of a drunken sailor. Her crush on Jimmy Pesto’s son encapsulates young love; awkward, earnest and doomed. Gene is eleven years old and a musical maestro in the making. His single-minded artistic aspiration is alien counter-programming to the mundane hustle culture of burger flipping and bathroom sanitation. The youngest, Louise, is a nine year old tactical genius. If there were a God of Chaos, she would usurp them. This pint sized Machiavelli orchestrates her plans with a finesse, coordination and merciless brutality that would make Sun Tzu blush. Though, that shouldn’t suggest that she doesn’t have her own pint sized fears. Yes, even this small agent of chaos fears the dentist and the loss of her iconic pink bunny ears.




One of the most captivating parts about Bob’s Burgers is its nonchalant approach to sexuality. Tina’s teenage angst-ridden erotic friend-fiction and the open inclusion of queer characters are portrayed as being just a part of daily life. At first glance, Bob’s Burgers might seem like a run-of-the-mill depiction of the archetypical American family chasing the American dream. This motif has been a sitcom staple for generations. Just like the Simpsons and Griffins before them, this show is a quirky, episodic exploration of the Belchers middle-class, nay, WORKING class, no, working POOR, family life.


However, where Bob’s Burgers truly diverges from this format is how it depicts the central family as being above the below, but below the middle. Whereas many other family sit-coms have a comfortable livelihood, usually off of a single income, the Belchers are chronically short for cash and late on rent. Animated sitcoms, and in fact usually sitcoms in general, like to keep money out of the conversation. Hard to make something light hearted if the focus is about money, or not having it. Yet it seems to be exactly what the people of today need. A solidarity with cartoon characters. As that suburban hot pursuit of happiness becomes gatekept by a struggling economy where the rich get richer, audiences seem to genuinely enjoy seeing comedic sensibilities that reflect their own struggles. And this struggle includes queer people.


Bob’s Burgers is a restaurant in a commercial district, not expensive subdivisions where groceries require a vehicle. It’s much more likely to find queer people walking down the street of these spaces than the suburbs. At least historically. It’s this key difference that allows a fluid inclusion of queer characters. Everybody eats, and not everybody can afford the bill for Jimmy Pesto’s overpriced bad Italian flavoured food.


In the world of television, queer characters have often had their stories told poorly, or been nothing but part of a message episode. The Belchers world, however, is one where queer individuals are not othered or sensationalised. They’re played for laughs, but never at our expense. The humour they depict to the Bob’s Burgers audience is the same we share among ourselves. But as characters, they are just part of the everyday, stopping in for a burger or just to say hi.


This nuanced handling of queer themes is part of the magic that makes Bob’s Burgers a standout in my personal pantheon of beloved shows. It’s the kind of series that rewards rewatching. Not just for the laughs, but for the depth and subtlety with which it handles its characters and themes. I’ve personally devoured each episode more times than I could count, each viewing revealing new layers and nuances.


So let's peel back the layers of Bob’s Burgers, and explore the intricacies that make it such a captivating watch. From its longevity, to its unapologetically queer core, this show isn’t just flipping burgers… it’s flipping the script, on how an animated series can demonstrate modern life.








BOB


In season four episode “Turkey in a Can”, Bob’s love of turkey gets the best of him, and leads to a very telling encounter. Someone is sabotaging his favourite meal of the year, and to demonstrate that he will not show weakness by surrendering, each day, for three days leading up to Thanksgiving, he goes to get a new turkey from the local grocery store. The butcher, however, is reading the wrong signals.


[CLIP:
BUTCHER: I’m in a relationship
BOB: What? Oh, no, no, I’m not trying to-
BUTCHER: Hey, listen daddy, don’t you let that one rejection keep you from getting out there. You seem great.]


While Bob does try to course correct, wanton turkeys finding themselves in toilets is a little strange. The next day, the butcher admits that there's trouble in paradise, and wants to give it a go with a daddy like Bob.


[CLIP:
BOB: Uh, wait, I mean, I’m straight, I mean I’m mostly straight.
BUTCHER: Let’s grab a coffee.
BOB: Call Tony.
BUTCHER: No, no, let’s just have sex!
BOB: Sorry, I-I gotta go cook this, also I’m married, but if I wasn’t… who am I kidding, you’re out of my league. It would never work.
BUTCHER: What are you talking about?
BOB: I gotta go.
BUTCHER: I’m gonna see you tomorrow!
BOB: Probably not. I’ll call you!]


Bob has no time for quick flings with mostly anonymous butchers, though. He has a turkey to make, and a point to prove. We learn that Bob is… straight leaning bisexual, in very certain terms. And that mainly the reason he doesn’t act on these feelings is self image. Linda isn’t the real conflict here which, granted, doesn’t necessarily mean that Bob is going to cheat on Linda. In fact, Linda seems aware of Bob’s various crushes and seems to encourage them. For the most part.


[CLIP:
LINDA: Miss Jacobson’s a real looker, isn’t she?
BOB: You’re telling me. Why is she a teacher? She should be, like, playing a teacher on TV.
LINDA: Alright, that’s enough.
BOB: I’m just saying, she’s ridiculously attractive.
LINDA: Enough.]


These bi or pansexual leanings surface now and again in subtle ways throughout the series. This is just the most apparent in the series to date. In conjunction with the show’s promotional material for pride, Bob can occasionally be seen sporting the bisexual colours. That also isn’t to say that there aren’t any number of instances where Bob outs himself in quiet ways. Bob is constantly making statements, or he used to make statements before Disney bought Fox, that strongly indicate to those who are aware that he’s very much in the know about gay life. Because someone had to tell the Gene about the more popular, if unintended, use for VCR head cleaner.


[CLIP:
GENE: Amyl Nitrate!]


GENE:


On my initial watch-through of Bob’s Burgers, Gene actually annoyed me. After about the third time starting the series over again though, I actually started listening to him, and yeah, fart jokes, but this kid knows way more than he should, and it’s definitely nothing he learned in school.


[CLIP:
GENE: That’s how I wanna go out. Dehydrated and covered in tinsel.
LOUISE: Sounds like a gay pride parade.
GENE: Mmmhmm.]


Gene’s character revolves around self-expression, specifically as he defines it. Without much, or any, regard for social norms. Gene’s primary directive is fabulousness, regardless of what gender expressions he is drawing from. Imagining life at school as a 1980’s pop musical, or channelling Queen Latifah.


[CLIP:
GENE: I’m rapper-slash-actress Queen Latifah! From her UNITY phase.
LINDA: Oh! God, so specific and political, I love it!
GENE: Mmm, mmm!]


When contemplating a new identity, he asks:


[CLIP:
GENE: Be honest, do I look like a Jessica?]